I'm really glad to be here
today to talk to you about
Xserve RAID and deploying it.
My name is Alex Grossman.
I'm a director of hardware
storage for Apple.
And today I think we're going
to have a little bit of fun.
Let me start with saying that there's
an IT mantra that's actually out there.
There's a couple things
that it's covered.
The first thing regarding storage
is that today we're seeing
storage needs grow 100% yearly.
And that's not only because everybody's
downloading from the iTunes Music Store,
but it's really because people are
actually building more content.
And a little bit because they're
downloading from the iTunes Music Store.
The other thing we're seeing
is that managing storage is
becoming a full-time job.
It used to be where you deployed a
server and you had a hard drive in
the server and maybe you had another
hard drive for storage and you kept
deploying servers and everyone had
storage and as you managed the server,
you managed the storage.
But as things moved to more
network-attached storage and
more direct-attached storage and
also storage-area networking,
storage management
becomes a full-time job.
And then the other thing is that people
are starting to classify storage.
So there's things coming
up called storage classes,
and we'll talk a little bit
about what storage classes are.
And what they're doing is they're,
they're the attempt to reduce the
cost and complexity in the IT world.
And of course,
configuration and planning.
That's the one thing that's
key to efficient deployments.
Because today,
a lot of people deploy storage
and they do it in a haphazard way.
And it's not purposely,
it's just that storage
needs are growing so fast,
how do we keep up?
And then of course, storage cost.
Well,
Apple with Xserve RAID has really reduced
the cost of storage and we've gotten a
lot of heat from our competitors on that.
So what are we really doing about that?
Well, the first thing is Xserve RAID is
the highest density in a 3U space.
In fact, I have about 17 terabytes of
storage up here on the stage
with me and it's a little warm,
but it's powerful.
Feels really good.
And of course,
fast deployment and easy-to-use
tools make storage installation
and management a lot easier.
So if you're going to deploy something,
you want to deploy it fast.
And the one thing you have to remember
about storage is that you deploy it
once and you don't touch it every day.
I mean, most of you, you'll be in Word,
you'll be in Excel.
If you're coding,
you're going to use tools every day,
the same tools.
But storage, you set it up once,
and the only time you go back
to it is when you have a problem
or when you want to add more.
So if you have tools
that are easy to use,
it just makes that faster.
And of course,
Xserve RAID has been built to have the
maximum versatility and flexibility to be
able to get you over this storage class
issue and use it in many different areas.
And then of course, when it comes to
configuring and planning,
there's just no substitute for hard work.
You just got to do it.
Now,
there's methodology you should follow,
but you just have to do it.
And then of course, Xserve RAID,
it's inexpensive.
So what we're going to try to go through
today is some really simple stuff.
We're going to introduce
you to Xserve RAID.
If you haven't seen the product,
get an idea why Apple did it.
I mean, it's kind of interesting.
Apple has not really been in
a high availability storage
business until this year.
In fact, Xserve RAID didn't launch.
It only launched four months ago.
And if you look at most other
vendors of all kinds of hardware,
including servers, they've been in a
RAID business for many years.
Then we're going to go through a
little bit of speeds and feeds,
not a lot, but just a little bit
about the architecture.
Because it's completely different than
anything that anyone else has done.
And then we're going to talk about
some of the applications in IT,
some of the storage classing.
Talk about planning considerations.
And then of course,
deployment and configurations.
And then I'm going to give you
a sneak peek at RAID admin,
the newest, latest version, 1.1,
which isn't out yet.
And so you get an idea of
what we're doing to progress.
And RAID admin is our
management tool for Xserve RAID.
You'll get an idea of how
we're progressing that along.
So the first thing is an intro.
So what is Xserve RAID?
Well, there's a lot of them here.
These are the big boxes.
So there are three U-high box.
That means they're five
and a quarter inches.
They're 19 inches tall.
They're 19 inches wide.
Fully loaded,
they weigh about 110 pounds.
So the first thing to remember when
deploying one is don't do it yourself.
It's the buddy system.
And never put them in
the top of the rack.
It's always a good thing.
And if you do, don't stand under it.
And it's massive in size,
but it's also massive in capacity.
So it boasts today the highest
capacity in a 3U system.
And of course, that changes every day.
Hard drives get faster and bigger.
And of course, Apple is always on the
cutting edge with that.
We did that with XServe.
We started with 60 gig hard drives,
and now we have 180 gig hard drives,
same as with XServe RAID.
And then the other thing is that
XServe RAID is a high availability
storage system that uses an advanced
architecture that is unlike what
a lot of other people have done.
In fact, we really think it's a precursor
to what we're seeing from
competitors in the future.
It uses ATA hard drives and a fiber
channel back end to the host connection.
It's something that you're
hearing more and more about,
but Apple was really the first
tier one vendor to pioneer it and
put it in to a high availability.
And then of course,
it's Apple's ease of use.
Remote monitoring and management,
similar to what we've done with XServe.
And in every generation,
we think we're getting a little better.
And I'm going to give you a sneak
preview of our next generation of
remote monitoring and management.
And then of course,
industry leading value.
And we're talking two and a half
terabytes of storage for around 10 grand.
It's not too bad.
Now, we designed Xserve
RAID for nonstop operation.
A lot of definitions of what that means.
Basically, it's a high availability,
fault-tolerant architecture.
That means if you have a power
supply fail in the system,
there's a redundant one to take over.
That means if you have a
cooling unit fail in the system,
there's redundant cooling.
You can build protected RAID sets
if you have a hard drive fail,
there's another hard
drive to take over for it.
And then we even have hot sparing
of hard drives so that if one fails,
another one will take over, rebuild,
and completely protect you.
And that's the way we
designed the system.
And then, of course,
we wanted to make it complete.
The thing we realized is that fiber
channel storage was pretty expensive.
And it wasn't just the storage systems,
it was the infrastructure.
So we lowered the cost,
not only of the storage,
but we lowered the cost
of the infrastructure.
We built a fiber channel PCI card
that we sell at about a third of the
price of what others sell it for.
And we can't figure out
why they charge so much.
And then, of course,
we include everything you need to
complete it and to work with an Xserve,
a G4, a G5.
And it's not just for the rack,
because not everybody
has a rack installation,
and not everybody,
although I think everyone
should run an Xserve,
not everybody's going to run an Xserve.
And there are other deployment
areas where Xserve RAID is great,
such as in the video area.
So you can take a product like the
Extrovert from Extreme Mac that takes
the Xserve RAID and puts it on its side.
Two and a half terabytes on your desktop.
or under your desk.
It's not terrible.
Well, let's talk about speeds and feeds.
Well, I was going to give you
all the speeds and feeds,
and I decided, you know what,
let's really look at the
numbers and see what they mean,
because speeds and feeds are useless
if you really can't figure out
how they work in your application.
So we have 14 independent drive channels.
What does that mean?
We say that all the time.
There's 14 hard drives
in an Xserver RAID.
I'll save you the counting.
There's 14 independent drive channels.
Why do we do it?
Well, first of all,
we didn't want any inner
drive dependencies.
Why?
Because any time you have a dependency
between one drive and another,
you limit the reliability of the system.
So if you've used SCSI before,
most RAID systems are
SCSI or fiber channel,
all the drives have dependencies.
A SCSI bus is a dependent bus.
They all share a common bus.
If something happens
on one side of the bus,
guess what?
It can affect the other side of the bus.
Well, since every drive's on its own bus,
there's 14 independent ones.
People who do very high-end servers
and storage systems and people
who work in the video world have
learned a long time ago that you put
independent buses in for performance.
It's the reason they have different
independent PCI buses on very
high-performance computer systems.
And also, the bandwidth.
There's 1400 megabytes per
second internal bandwidth.
How do we get there?
That's a speed and feed number.
Well,
if there's 14 independent channels and
each channel is 100 megabytes a second,
this is first-grade math,
100 times 14 is 1400 megs a second.
And that's a burst rate.
Right?
An individual spin up
and spin down control.
Who cares?
Well, hard drives take a lot of power.
You can imagine that it's costing
us a lot to run 17 terabytes here.
But hard drives take a lot of power,
and to make it easier to
deploy those in a rack,
you want to limit the amount
of power surge you have,
or what they call the break current.
So you don't want to blow a breaker every
time you turn a rack of Xserve RAIDs on.
[Transcript missing]
and a passive data path
through the midplane.
What the heck is that?
First of all, what's a midplane?
Well, in RAID systems,
unlike computer systems,
computer systems have backplanes.
What's cool about the backplane?
Everything plugs into it.
Well, on the RAID system,
in the middle of it, there's a backplane.
And because it's in the middle,
we call it a midplane.
And what plugs into it?
Well, everything.
The hard drives plug into it,
the power supplies plug into it,
the RAID controllers plug into it,
the cooling units plug into it.
It's all in the middle.
But what's nice about it is there's
an independent path from every
hard drive to the RAID controller
going through the midplane,
but it's passive.
It's like a connector.
And on other RAID systems,
there's actually logic on the midplane.
Is that good?
Well, it's good until the logic fails,
and then you have a
single point of failure.
So we've tried to eliminate single
points of failure for reliability.
And how about a dedicated 64-bit,
66 MHz PCI bus to the drives?
So I talked about 1,400 megabytes
a second internal bandwidth.
Well, I lied when we get to
the RAID controllers,
because each RAID controller has 533
megabytes a second of internal bandwidth.
So it's really about 1,000 megabytes
of internal bandwidth within a system.
And because we have an independent
coprocessing system in each
one of the RAID controllers,
events that happen on the PCI bus
from the drive don't affect any
of the performance of the system.
Now the other area that we talk about
are dual independent RAID controllers.
So what are they?
Well,
essentially it means that each controller
only has to manage seven drives.
So we have two of them,
we have 14 drives,
each one manages seven drives,
it's less work for the RAID controller.
They're happy,
they get to work nine to five.
But what that really means is that
it leads to higher throughput.
[Transcript missing]
And then the other thing that
I think is really important is
that we can use Apple RAID that's
built in our operating system.
This is the nice thing about being
close to the operating system.
We can use Apple RAID to
build compound RAID sets.
What are they?
So that means if we take a
RAID 5 and a RAID 5 and put
them together and stripe them,
we'll build a RAID 50.
And we can get the maximum
performance out of that because in
the operating system we can tune that.
And we're able to,
so it's really exciting.
[Transcript missing]
So how about deploying it?
Well, in talking about the applications,
the first thing you should see is
how do you deploy it physically?
So I mentioned they
need to be rack-mounted,
or they need to have an
enclosure that holds them.
What's really important in the IT world
today is performance and reliability.
That's optimum, right?
That's what you have to have.
So how do you achieve that?
The first thing I can tell you is
spend the money on a good rack.
Why?
Well, I'm going to tell you why.
First, you want to make sure that
with 14 spinning hard drives
that spin at 7200 RPM,
that you don't achieve what
we call rotational vibration.
What does that mean?
We have desktops, they have hard drives,
no problem.
Well, a hard drive...
In fact, this was told to me a long
time ago and it's still true.
A hard drive spinning with the
head floating above it is like
flying a 747 six feet off the
ground at 600 miles an hour.
[Transcript missing]
is the founder of Xserve RAID.
He's the founder of the
Xserve RAID platform.
Alex Grossman is the founder
of the Xserve RAID platform.
He's the founder of the
Xserve RAID platform.
Alex Grossman is the founder
of the Xserve RAID platform.
Alex Grossman is the
founder of the Xserve RAID
[Transcript missing]
So there's this thing what we call
captive and non-captive storage.
And in the Apple world,
there was no captive storage.
That meant that the server
company actually sold the
storage along with the servers.
And before Xserve RAID and before Xserve,
it was really hard to get a lot
of storage in an Apple platform.
So if you wanted it,
you were stacking FireWire drives
or buying from some third-party
company and hoping for the best.
But the other storage
companies and server companies,
they made it their business to
sell storage in the servers.
Because it was easier to deploy.
You didn't have to worry
about setting it up.
And also, my server vendor knows
what's best for me.
Well, I still believe that one
because we're the server vendor.
Now, throughput is driven by cost.
If it costs more, it has to be faster.
Ferraris cost more than Volkswagens.
They have to be faster,
unless you throw them off a cliff.
If it costs more, it has to be better.
How can you build it for less?
If it costs more,
it must be better supported.
Those are traditional views.
Throw them out the window.
Technology changes everything.
And that's what's happened.
So this is the traditional
view of storage.
This is the way most people deploy it.
You have internal server,
usually using software RAID.
It's a good way to start.
The throughput and the
availability are low,
and the cost is low.
Now, there is an exception to that,
and that's Xserve.
The throughput's phenomenal.
The cost is still low,
but the throughput's phenomenal.
Internal server-based hardware RAID.
Now,
I would argue with this a little bit and
say that usually the throughput's lower.
In the Xserve case,
it's much lower than our software RAID.
And then there's external
SCSI hardware RAID storage,
the staple of the industry.
It's easy, it's expensive.
And then there's external
SAN-attached fiber channel,
storage area networking,
the idea that I can centralize
all my storage into one area.
These are traditional views.
These are the way people look at it.
So what's changing it?
Something called storage classing.
What is storage classing?
Well,
servers are moving to a scale-out model.
We have more servers.
People talk about server consolidation.
I want to get rid of all the
servers I have and do one.
That works until you're asked
to deliver more services.
And as soon as you deliver more services,
you buy more servers.
And you're trying to scale them out,
because you're not buying these
monster servers anymore and
deploying everything on them.
[Transcript missing]
And the other thing is that the
management of having all these
servers and all these storage
devices is out of control.
Because especially if you bought
servers from a lot of different people,
you manage them all differently.
And a lot of different operating systems.
It's really kind of crazy.
And then direct-attached
storage was the only alternate.
Now I'll bet you that a lot of
people out here have installed
network-attached storage in some case.
At least some of it.
And probably even
storage-area networking.
And those numbers are
increasing every day.
That's one of the changes.
Now, the other thing about storage
classes is that people spend
a lot of money on storage.
They always have.
It's been an interesting thing.
I buy a server for X dollars,
I spend three times as much on storage.
That was always the rule.
And they always had to
buy the same storage.
They always bought really
expensive SCSI storage,
if that's what they bought,
because they had to use it everywhere.
Because it was the same,
and it was there,
and they had to keep buying it.
And every time they needed a terabyte,
they paid X dollars for it.
Or a gigabyte in the old days,
they paid X dollars.
Storage classes are changing that.
They're realizing that you
can deploy different types of
storage for different needs.
Gee.
And also, this incredible thing happened.
Anybody who's older like me,
they'll remember something called HSM,
hierarchical storage management.
They renamed it nearline storage.
What's old is new again,
and it's really getting a lot of play,
and I'll talk about that.
So as you deploy,
you look at these traditional views,
and something's changed.
And this is what's changed.
And you're going to see this
from other vendors happening,
but Apple was the first one to put
the shot across the bow with this one.
External ATA-based hardware
RAID storage that's fast and affordable.
And guess what?
It has the high availability needs
that you use in business-critical
applications as well.
And you get that for free.
And so when you look at this picture,
you say, how can something that costs
as little as internal storage,
based on what people will do at SCSI,
deliver the performance equivalent
to what you get with external
fiber-channel-based systems
that cost five times as much?
Well, it can happen,
and I'll show you why
in a couple minutes.
So here's what it's really all about.
IT has to look at doing more with less.
I don't think there's anyone in the
room here who's had a boss who's said,
you know what,
let's deliver less services this year.
Let me give you tons of money.
Go buy whatever you want.
And only work five days a
week and six hours a day.
I see a bunch of nods.
Everybody's doing that, right?
Okay.
It's not happening like that.
It's like this department needs this.
This department needs that.
I need to deploy it now.
It needs to be faster.
It needs to be better.
I'm bringing 10 people online.
I need you to work Sunday.
to install that server
and while you're at it,
put the storage in the top of
the rack as far as you can,
'cause there's no room to buy a new rack,
that's happening.
And then there's backup.
So how do you backup 17
terabytes of storage?
So what I have on the stage,
how long does that take?
Can you do it in the eight-hour
window that no people are
working at your company?
Say yes, right?
So people are looking at
different ways of doing it.
They're saying, you know what?
What we can do is as we
bring more storage online,
we're looking at new ways.
So things like nearline,
disk-to-disk backup.
Have we all heard that term,
disk-to-disk backup?
Why is that?
Because it's fast, right?
And then I can back it up,
I have another copy, and at my leisure,
I can have those slow tape
drives take it offline.
Because I can tell you right now,
you can back up all 17 terabytes
that are on this stage in one
hour for about a million dollars.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
I know this will work.
So I mentioned storage classes.
So there's three classes of
storage most people identify.
The first class is high availability,
highly redundant, and very expensive.
Where do you want to use this?
Well, some people used to call
this mission critical.
I tend to call it mission critical,
but everything you do
is mission critical.
If you're doing code
and you lose that code,
that was mission critical to you,
especially if you had
a deadline next week.
If you're deploying a web server
and you lose all that content,
that was mission critical.
But where do you really see this used?
I use my favorite example
is the ATM machine.
When I put my card in,
I want to make sure that it has my
balance or lies and gives me more money,
but it has my balance that's in there.
So that's mission critical.
I want the people who run the banks
to spend a lot of money on storage.
But you know, the transactions that
I did the day before,
they're not as important to me
because it's my balance I care about.
So I want to make sure that
that becomes class two storage.
It's still protected,
but it's business critical.
It's not mission critical.
And that's like running a website.
That's business critical stuff.
That's your email.
It's business critical stuff.
It's highly redundant,
and it's available,
but you can accept some downtime
as long as you can save the
data and the data's still there.
business on it.
It's a good thing.
So this is the way storage
classes get deployed.
And so in the enterprise apps,
I use that big E word up there,
in database financial,
there's what they call
online storage in class one.
There's also what they
call near-line storage.
What the heck is near-line?
Near-line means it's not as fast,
it's not as redundant,
but it's there and it's safe.
And if it does have a
little bit of downtime,
I can recover from it quickly
and I know my data's still there.
And then when you look at business apps,
for the most part,
you start to see that they're
using different classes of storage.
You'd never deploy an enterprise
app on Nearline alone.
You'd always have some online.
But you would find a business
app running on Nearline.
And you'll find e-commerce and
web apps running on Nearline.
So this whole classing of storage is
starting to do something to the world.
Why?
Well, imagine if I have to buy
Brand X storage that I've used
for all my mission-critical
applications and it costs,
and this is not unrealistic,
$250,000 a terabyte.
And since I've deployed five
terabytes of that in my organization,
I give it to everyone.
Everyone's home directory runs on that
storage that costs a lot of money.
That's crazy.
When I can buy 2.5
terabytes of Xserve RAID,
and I can let all my people have
10 megabytes of iTunes Music Store,
I can have all my people have
enough room to do their work,
I don't have to bug them,
and I can put their home
directories out there.
And it's safe and it's secure,
but guess what?
It's not the transactions
that run the company.
So that's what the classing
of storage is really doing.
So how do you plan for this?
Because we're going to talk about
the real fun stuff in a minute,
but how do you plan for it?
Well,
the first thing is you have to plan.
Take into consideration the capacity,
the throughput, and availability,
and also the cost and value.
So when you're doing capacity planning,
my rule is buy more than you need.
Because if you think
you bought enough today,
start working on that budget for next
year because you're going to buy more.
and make sure you have
a solution that scales.
How about throughput?
You really have to look at this.
What is the throughput you need?
Again, if you get throughput for free,
buy the highest throughput you can.
But it's all about configuration,
and it's all about performance.
The availability.
Mission critical, no downtime.
Business critical, manageable downtime.
Archive and near align.
So you have to take all those things
in consideration and build a big
chart and decide what you really want.
Because there are times when you
want to buy storage that's even
beyond what Xserve RAID can deploy.
So here's what people
usually will determine,
use to determine their storage.
The first metric that you always get,
this is the financial
people always say this one.
What's the cost per gigabyte?
So currently IDC and Gartner, they say,
if you believe them,
they say it's $30 a gigabyte
for high availability storage.
Xserve RAID is $4.36.
So it's chalking it up for value.
What are the hidden costs that
you get with other companies?
Well, the hidden costs are
things you have to look at.
What's
What's the additional
software you have to buy,
both to set up and manage the system?
What are the costs of cables?
What are the costs of power,
because it draws a lot of power?
Those are all the hidden
costs that you have.
and also what about expansion?
When I expand, does it cost me as much to
expand as it cost me to buy in?
Or does it cost more?
Does it cost less?
And will the company be
there in a couple years?
Those are all storage planning tools.
How about deployments?
So here's the scenarios we always see.
An Apple server-based deployment.
A single server, a single RAID.
I think we can all do that one.
A single server, multiple RAIDs.
I'd like everyone to do that one.
Multiple server, single RAID,
or multiple servers, multiple RAID.
So let's look at the cases.
How about a mixed OS platform?
Is it possible to do
that with Xserve RAID?
You could have multiple servers,
multiple RAIDs, single server,
single RAIDs, all that's possible.
How about a virtualized mixed platform?
What is that?
Why would you want to virtualize?
We're going to talk about that.
So let's build some scenarios.
You ready?
I built a couple already here.
So here's three typical
scenarios that I built.
The first one is I took Mac OS X server
on an Xserve and an Xserve RAID.
It was a pretty easy
and simple thing to do.
The next scenario I did is
I took that same Xserve RAID and
I attached two Xserves to it.
I took another scenario in the middle,
kind of a funny one.
I have this server from a company
called IBM and one from a company
called Dell with an Xserve,
and I have two RAIDs.
And I'm sharing the storage
across all those platforms.
And in scenario four,
it's kind of interesting.
I have what I call virtualized storage.
So I have a third-party product
called a Chaparral RAID RPS,
or a provisioning server.
There's the word you want to remember,
provisioning.
I have a couple Xserves
and a couple Xserve RAIDs,
and I basically added additional
capabilities to Xserve RAID and kept
that low-cost storage deployment,
but added true enterprise-class
performance and reliability and
scalability to the Xserve RAID without
having to buy some very expensive
storage that you could use to do this.
So let me show you how they work.
First thing is,
let's look at an Xserve RAID.
If you've seen one other than here,
it's pretty standard.
Cleaned in the front.
I mentioned that there's 14 hard drives.
People always say we went a
little overboard with lights.
I say we need more.
Drive activity and health
activity on each drive.
Each hard drive, what is health?
We actually measure the
drives for are they good,
are they in a pre-fail condition?
That means are they going
to fail or have they failed?
So the light goes green, amber, and red.
Red is dead.
Green is good.
Amber means that we've used a
technology called SMART to actually
look at the performance of the drive.
We look at the drives and say
what is the health of that drive?
If it's going to fail,
we're going to pre-fail it
and we're going to warn you.
We're going to send you an email and say,
hey, this drive is going to fail.
We're going to,
if you had a hot spare in the system,
we're going to rebuild to the hot
spare so you have full availability.
It's an indicator on the front.
It gives you a good idea.
There's fiber channel link indicators.
Just like on Xserve,
we want to make sure that the
links that you have to your
server are easily available.
Why do we put those on the front?
There's lights on the back, right?
Well, this comes from the classic
example of ease of use.
Anybody ever have a rack?
Anybody ever install a rack?
Okay, a few people here, a lot of people.
When you have a rack,
you really want to make it
really clean in the back and run
all the cables down the side,
and it's going to be beautiful.
It doesn't happen, guys.
It looks like a spaghetti
jungle in there.
And so there's a chance,
there's always that possibility
that you could come along and
unplug a cable by mistake.
And if you don't have an indicator
on the front to show you,
you may not notice that until you walk
to your desk and get emailed or paged.
So it can happen,
it can happen really easy.
So we put a lot of
indicators on the front,
including link indicators
for fiber channel.
Because I will tell you,
when you disconnect the
fiber channel cable,
you don't get called by
our admin utility first.
You get called by all those people
who just lost their connection.
And so we put a lot of
indicators on the front.
And then we put a lot of
indicators on the back.
indicators on the front.
And then we put a lot of
indicators on the back.
indicators on the front.
And usually those pages are the bad ones.
So we put a lot on the front.
You'll notice just like XServe,
we have a system identifier
button and enclosure lock,
and we added something else
called an alarm silencer.
Because I can set up my XServe
RAID that if I have a failure,
and it's in a desk-side configuration,
or under the desk or on the
desk or in the CEO's office,
it's going to be a failure.
I can actually have it beep at
me beyond the visual indicators.
And you notice this one didn't
beep when I pulled that power
cord out because I shut it off.
That's the fun thing you can do.
So let's look at the back of it because
this is really how you deploy it,
right?
Pretty clean, Apple design.
Two big fans and power supplies.
They're redundant.
Two redundant cooling
modules in the middle.
Two independent RAID controllers.
Two backup battery modules.
A power indicator.
An alarm mute button on the back as well.
And a system identifier.
And so you look at it and you say,
pretty easy.
There's nothing you can't get to.
If I go back and look at the front,
I can get to all the hard drives.
If I look at the back,
I can get to all the components.
So the design of Xserve RAID is
a high availability design,
meaning that the only thing that I can't
change in the field is that midplane.
But remember,
that was a passive data flow.
So the only way to break that is
to physically bend the connectors.
Bad thing, guys.
Or you're going to hurt the metal.
Maybe look at the bezel on this.
It's a little hard to hurt, right?
It's aluminum.
So you're really not going
to be able to hurt anything,
and you're going to be able
to deploy this thing anywhere
you need it in an easy manner.
So most of the connections you're
going to look at are going to
be the fiber channel connection,
the Ethernet connection,
and the serial connection.
Why?
Well,
that's what we're going to talk about.
So here's scenario one.
I call this one standard
operating procedure.
You take an Xserve RAID,
you take an Xserve.
You put our fiber channel
card in the Xserve.
It has two ports on it.
You take the two cables
that come with the card,
you plug them in the Xserve RAID,
and you're done.
It's easy.
Two and a half terabytes, ready to go.
The Xserve RAID comes out of the box.
It's configured for two RAID 5 sets.
So you have about 2.1
terabytes available to you,
protected RAID.
You go to Disk Utility,
just like you would
any other hard drives.
Either build one RAID 50 set by
striping the two together or two
RAID 5 sets that are on the desktop.
You serve them to your clients,
you're done.
Pretty easy.
You tell your boss it took you two days.
Software that comes with it,
Apple RAID Admin.
What is RAID Admin?
It's a utility that Apple's designed to
make it easy to deploy these systems.
So you can install them
using this utility,
you can manage them using this utility.
What's different about it?
What's different about it,
it's web-based, it's Java-based,
so read that, Java-based,
platform-independent-based.
You can use it anywhere in the world.
And you know what's cool about it?
You can deploy a RAID system
literally in a minute.
And I'm going to show you that.
And then the other thing about
this installation is that you
just have to have a strong back,
because you've got to lift the RAID.
Okay, how about this one?
Scenario two.
Two Xserves and an Xserve RAID.
What did we do here?
Why did we do this?
Well, what we did is we
centralized the storage.
So that's what I did in this case.
I took my Xserve RAID.
I didn't use a switch in this case.
I just went directly from the
Xserve RAID to the two Xserves.
I took centralized, protected storage,
high availability storage,
and delivered over a
terabyte to each Xserve.
And what's really cool about this is
that that storage is more redundant
than the server in this case.
And if I ever had a problem,
I can move that storage
over to another server.
So I have a highly
redundant configuration.
And it's inexpensive.
How about scenario three?
That's the one I built over here.
Actually,
some nice people here built it for me.
We took an Xserve,
we took an IBM 330 server,
a Dell 1550 server, an Xserve RAID,
we took Apple RAID admin,
and I configured it with four RAID sets.
Three RAID 5s and a RAID 1.
And each server has a RAID 5 set,
and the Xserve has an
additional RAID 1 boot.
So, contrary to popular belief,
you can actually boot your
Xserve off an Xserve RAID.
It just works.
- And I'll show you
exactly how we did that.
So what I did is I built a RAID set.
This took me about 10 seconds.
And I took three hard drives,
and I built a 360 gig RAID set,
fully protected,
and I gave it to my Xserve.
Then I built another RAID set
and I gave it to the Dell dude.
Sorry.
And then because someone said I had
to keep that Dell and that IBM 330
and my budget for buying Xserves to
replace those pigs took a little while,
I also gave a 360 gig or 540
gig RAID set to my IBM 330.
And then that last two
hard drives that I had,
I made a boot that was
mirrored for my Xserve.
Now I had two drives left over,
and I made those hot spares so that
all my RAID sets are globally protected
against the failure of any drive.
[Transcript missing]
Well, hundreds of thousands of dollars.
In the same capacity with
some storage systems,
you'd have to spend hundreds of thousands
of dollars to get this capability.
So we took two Xserves.
We took two Xserve RAIDs.
We took a VXL fiber channel switch,
a 16-port VXL fiber channel switch.
Unfortunately, I didn't have enough room
to put it in the front.
It's in the back.
I took a third-party product,
a provisioning server from a
good company called Chaparral,
called the RAID RPS.
I took Apple RAID admin and
Chaparral's loan provisioning software,
and I built a completely
virtualized storage system.
We call this a SAN.
You might have heard the technology.
And so what did it do?
Well, the RAID RPS sees 4.32 terabytes.
And the RAID RPS allows
me to build 1,024 LUNs.
What's a LUN?
A LUN is basically,
think of it as a partition.
So that if I had a lot of users,
maybe not 1,024, but if I had 100 users,
and they were all graphic artists,
I could break that storage
up to them equally.
And I probably would leave a
pool of that storage unused.
[Transcript missing]
So let's take that.
Let's take that scenario.
Let's decide that one server handles
my graphics department and one
server handles my video department.
My graphic guys are slacking off.
They're using a terabyte of storage.
My video guys, on the other hand,
they've been downloading
QuickTime flicks for a long time here,
and they really are maxed out.
I'm running at 2.16 terabytes.
I'm telling them every week,
throw your stuff away.
What can I do with
RAID RPS and with Xserve RAID?
I can go ahead and re-partition
or re-engineer that software so
that I can re-provision it so
that now my video people can have,
let's say, three terabytes and my graphic
artists only get one terabyte.
And I can do that dynamically,
essentially on the fly.
With a restart of the Xserve,
they can have a complete
change in what they need.
And so that's really high-level
capabilities that are very
difficult to get with other systems.
Now, the other thing, that's what we call
dynamic growth of LUNs.
The other thing we can do here is
we can do things like snapshots.
So I mentioned backup, right?
If that graphics department
is moving a terabyte a day,
I probably don't have a tape
drive to move a terabyte a day.
But I can snapshot that or make
a point-in-time copy of that
data so that someone can get
it off there at their leisure.
And that's all available with
Xserve RAID using low-cost storage
with a provisioning server.
And again,
the provisioning server we have
here is a low-cost storage.
And again, the provisioning Here is the
provisioning server from Chaparral.
Now, managing LUNs and performance
tuning with RAID Admin.
So I'm going to give you a quick look
at a sneak preview of a new version
of RAID Admin that's coming out.
Let me show you how this works.
So can I have a demo two up, please?
Okay.
So this is RAID admin.
Our little piece of software
to manage the RAID systems.
So the first thing you're
going to notice is that all my
RAID systems here happen to be on
my network and they're on a subnet.
Now, to make it easy,
because I didn't want to confuse myself,
I took some of them off the subnet
because I didn't want to see them.
But you'll notice that
RAID admin uses rendezvous.
And so I can just grab
one of those systems and
I happen to know the password,
so I'm not going to tell
everybody it's public here.
Anybody who's on my subnet here.
And I know the password and I'm
going to log into it and it's going
to go out there and it's going to
hit one of my RAID systems and give
me all the information about it.
Now, remember, pretty cool Cocoa app,
right?
[Transcript missing]
How about Fiber Channel?
I have a connection to Fiber Channel.
I can look.
I have two links.
I can see this,
this little worldwide name down here.
It's only 48 digits.
It's really simple and easy to remember.
and my network.
So why do I need network?
Because we do what's called
out-of-band management.
What's connecting my RAID admin system
to my RAID systems here is Ethernet.
I'm not using the
bandwidth on Fibre Channel.
I'm doing this in what's
called out-of-band,
so it's really a simple connection.
But you'll notice I have
a link that's down,
because I wanted to get an amber light
in here to show you what it looks like.
I have a link that's down.
It's a warning.
It's warning me, telling me, Alex,
you only connect to one
of those Ethernet lines.
So if your switch or router
on your Ethernet goes down,
you're not going to be able to
see your RAID system when you're
on vacation in Fuji next week.
So you want to have them both on there.
You'll notice I also have some
speed and configuration on here,
and then something brand new in
RAID admin 1.1 is an event log.
So I can actually save the
events and know what I did,
because believe it or not, we get busy.
It's one of those funny
things that happens.
So this is basically a system.
Let's do something.
Let's do something funny here.
Let's create a RAID system.
Is that cool?
So everybody's used to Keychain, right?
So I have that in my Java app here.
So let's see if I remember my password.
[Transcript missing]
I'm an IT person,
but I manage a lot of different things.
I don't just manage my
RAID systems every day.
If I do, I've got a pretty cushy job
if they're Xserve RAIDs.
But I don't remember what the
difference between RAID 3 and RAID 5 is.
So I just look up here and it tells me,
and I can build a RAID set knowing
I need three or more drives.
How do I do it?
This is really hard.
So I pick a drive and I select them.
Oh, my finger's getting tired.
Oh, this is a lot of work.
I select my drives,
and then we have this little
thing that's called RAID Now.
What does that mean?
It's background initialization.
So I can click that,
and that allows me to actually
use the RAID set instantly.
So what I'm going to
do is build a RAID set,
and it's going to take a long time.
It's actually going to take
24 hours to build a RAID set.
Because what I'm going to do is I'm going
to check to a surface analysis on every
single drive in the system to make sure
there's no failures of those drives.
Because you don't want to
build a RAID set on bad drives.
And you'd be surprised if you
ever see other RAID systems and
they build a RAID set in like
five minutes or ten seconds.
You go, oh, they did a lot of
checking on those drives,
didn't they?
They made sure those were perfect.
They just looked at the
signature and wrote it on there.
We're going to do a complete surface
analysis of the entire drive,
back and forth, reads and writes.
And we're going to
spare out any bad areas.
We're going to take care of it all.
But in the meantime,
you'll still be able to use it.
And then I want high performance.
You know what it says here.
It says that if I turn on drive cache,
I should have batteries or UPS.
That's a warning, guys,
because you can lose data if you don't.
And then I say create.
I'm done.
I just built a RAID 5 RAID set on
the fly in a matter of seconds.
That's it.
It's easy.
So what else is really
cool about RAID Admin?
How about settings?
So the one thing I can do in this system,
in fact, what I'm going to do here is I'm
going to grab another one that
has some different stuff on it.
So I can see some different settings.
This is actually the system I'm
using right now in this configuration
with the provisioning server.
This one has some cool settings on it.
So I'm going to go in and
take a look at the settings.
and what you're going to notice
first is the system information.
So this is the RAID RPS rack.
That's this rack over here.
And this is RAID 3.
I can synchronize my time.
I can change my management passwords.
Remember I mentioned about
the audible system alerts?
I can turn them on or turn them off.
I can restart automatically
when there's a power failure.
Anybody like to get called in the middle
of the night when there's a power failure
because the RAID went down and you've
got to go push the button back on?
Forget that.
No more doing that.
I mentioned the network settings.
I can change from manual to DHCP.
Fiber channel.
If you have an existing
fiber channel network,
this is the most important thing
you're ever going to play with.
[Transcript missing]
Part of that is marketing, but...
For the most part,
it's because most RAID systems,
you have to be a genius to tune them.
So I mentioned there were
automatic and there were manual
settings for our RAID systems.
So first thing we do is we do
all the automatic stuff for you.
We tune it based on the way you tell us.
You tell us you have 512
megs of cache in there.
You tell us that you have battery backup.
You tell us you're going to do RAID 5,
and we tune it.
But we also give you other settings.
I mentioned Drive Cache.
I can turn the Drive Cache
on in the drives.
So if I didn't have a UPS and I'm
willing to take a performance hit,
I don't want to turn Drive Cache on.
"I'm scared that if
I have a power failure,
I could lose some data."
Now we do have in Mac OS X,
we do of course have journaling.
Journaling protects you
against these things.
But there's still the possibility
that you could lose a lot
of data because there's 8
megabytes of cache per hard drive,
times that by 14,
and that's bigger than your spreadsheet.
or my spreadsheet.
So we may want to turn
it on or turn it off.
I always suggest hooking to
UPS and running DriveCache on,
because the performance
can be 100% better.
How about WriteCache?
What is WriteCache?
This is kind of a misnomer,
enable and disable.
Because what we actually do is
we have two levels of WriteCache.
One is write through.
That means we don't really cache
anything at the RAID controller.
Everything that comes through,
we just write it through it,
and so the data flows
quickly to the drives.
So the computer, in this case,
let's call it an Xserve,
as soon as it sees that
the data is at the drives,
it's free to send more data.
So it gets this write complete.
If we do something
called write back cache,
which is what we're enabling here,
we actually tell the system,
the Xserve in this case,
that we've written the data to
the drives when we really haven't.
We've written it into a cache buffer.
And that's why we have
those battery backups,
to back up that cache in case for some
reason we lost power at that case.
But that could also
increase your performance,
because imagine if you want to
have a lot of people hitting
the RAID system at once,
what do you expect it to do?
You expect the Xserve to send a lot of
commands to the Xserve RAID at once.
And the only way you can accept those
commands is to start caching them up.
And also you have to remember that
the data that's coming off the hard
drives can come either in order or
out of order to the RAID controller.
And so what we want to do is
we want to cache all that data
up so we can get as much data
delivered to the Xserve at once.
We want to open the floodgates,
so this is important.
Now I mentioned that we had
dynamic prefetch in the system.
So why do I have a
prefetch setting for RAID?
And what is prefetch?
Well, essentially what prefetch is,
is that if I, let's take the alphabet,
A through Z.
If I tell you that I want
to look at A and B,
you're pretty much going to
guess that the next thing
I want to look at is C and D.
So in a streaming application,
or if you're like me,
I'm probably going to look at Z next,
but if you're in a streaming application,
it's a pretty good guess that I'm
going to prefetch a lot of data
ahead because I'm going to anticipate
what you're going to get next.
So I said that we're dynamic.
So what we do is we look at the data that
the driver is giving us from our Xserve,
from the OS, and we say,
what kind of data is it?
If it's streaming data,
what I do is I open my prefetch
window and I start grabbing a
lot of data because I know if
I'm streaming a QuickTime movie,
the rest of the QuickTime movie is what
you're likely going to want to see.
It's the data you want.
But, you notice here I have
three settings for that.
Why?
If I just can dynamically change this.
It's the size of the
dynamic changes we can make.
So if I set it to 128, you give me,
the RAID controller, a lot of range.
I can go anywhere I want.
If I set it to 1,
I can only do a little prefetch.
Why?
Why would I need to change it?
Why would you be smarter than me?
Well, the reason is,
you may not want to watch
that whole QuickTime movie.
You might be scrubbing a timeline,
you might have a hundred
users and everybody wants to
share a little of that data.
So you know your data
patterns better than I do.
So what's cool about this?
It's dynamic.
You run a test based
on your data patterns,
you're using your users, you hammer it,
you hit it a lot,
you don't see the performance you want.
What do you do?
It's really hard here.
You go over and you push the button.
You run the test again.
So I'll give you some
general rules for this.
Anybody here have I/Os per second?
Small files are I/Os per second.
Large files are usually megabytes.
They usually work against each other.
If you have large files, video content,
put the prefetch as high as you can.
If you have tons of users, lots of users,
they do small files,
turn the prefetch down.
You'll help the system.
And in all cases,
keep write cache enabled.
great admin.
Now let me show you something else.
Can I go to demo three, please?
So this is,
I don't know what kind of system this is.
This is,
I can't remember one of these things.
It's called a PC.
So this is actually
RAID admin running on Windows.
Now, this isn't something we support,
but I mentioned RAID admin is Java.
Oh, I'll even show you something that
I didn't show you on the Mac,
which I could have shown you,
is contextual menus.
RAID admin actually has
contextual menus as a Java app.
So it's pretty cool.
All the capabilities of RAID admin on
the Mac are available on other platforms.
Such as Windows, such as Sun,
anything that runs Java 1.31 or better.
So you can actually manage your system,
although not necessarily
a recommendation,
you can actually manage your
system from a Windows system.
So when you're stuck in Fiji on vacation,
and you forgot to bring
your PowerBook with you,
you can still manage through RAID admin.
Okay, great.
Can we go back to slides, please?
Cool.
So, here's a typical
LUN management configuration.
One of the things I like to talk
about is how we actually can do basic
SAN functionality in Xserve RAID with
RAID admin without really having to spend
any money on SAN software pieces and
parts and still do what's true to a SAN,
which is consolidating your storage
and deploying it to many servers.
So, I showed you how we had four
servers basically deployed here,
or three servers
deploying four RAID sets.
So, let me show you how it
actually would look.
We'd break it up into
four Xserves in this case.
I'd build four RAID sets
using that one masking I saw.
And now, I get the advantage of global
hot-sparing using that tool by just
putting the worldwide port name of each
one of those Xserves and addressing
those to each one of the Xserves.
So, I can deploy that to any
one of the RAID sets.
Simple.
So, we can deploy that.
You can do it in seconds.
In this case,
I used a fiber channel switch to
allow me to go from two to four.
Now, the beauty of this is that not every
computer can see every RAID set.
Only the computer,
or only the Xserve in this case,
that is attached to its
RAID set can see its RAID set.
The other data is protected away.
And easily,
I can change who sees what data.
So it's a really simple deployment.
So let me wrap it up.
There's five hints I'll
give you for deployment.
First thing to remember
is it's easy as one,
two, three, almost.
The first one is read the manual.
What?
There's two manuals for Xserve RAID.
One's a hardware manual, it's 91 pages,
and it's excellent.
The second one is the software
manual for RAID admin.
Do you really need to read it?
I would read it.
Plan ahead.
This is the biggest problem that
we all have with deploying RAID,
is we either buy too
much or buy too little,
but we never deploy it right.
So that goes along with my next one.
Buy too much, because you're going
to ask for more later.
Okay, that's a little marketing pitch,
okay.
Then, number four, read the manual again.
5.
Deploy it.
It's really simple.
If you want to get more information,
you can contact myself or Skip Levins.
There's reference
libraries for Xserve RAID.
A lot of information online for that.
I'd like to open it up to any
questions that anybody has,
if we can do that.
Oh,
I did want to talk about one more thing,
too, two more things, actually.
In the XServe, in the XServe deploying
XServe session yesterday,
we were talking about ways of making
it easy to deploy multiple servers,
and Doug Brooks mentioned
something called the introvert,
which is a little device here.
I call it the little
buddy for the XServe RAID,
and it allows us to take a
cartridge or what we call a drive
carrier from an XServe or an XServe
RAID and bring it up onto a G4,
G5, or even another XServe if we want to,
really easily because it
makes it hot-pluggable using
FireWire on the system.
There's two really
cool things you can do.
One is I mentioned mirroring
on the XServe RAID.
So if I mirror,
let's say I have seven drives
on one side of my XServe RAID,
and I do a mirror of one of those drives,
and I don't tell it that I want to
just mirror one drive on the other.
to the next drive, it will automatically
mirror all seven drives.
Why would anybody ever use that?
Well,
how about if I have to make an image
and deploy to multiple Xserves?
I have seven boot drives.
And if I want to check them,
I take my extrovert,
Am I introvert, actually?
And I mounted up on my G5, G4,
and I can actually see what I got.
So I can have seven copies easily.
So that's my little tips and
tricks thing for Xserve RAID.